[DEVX-1941] Add docs for playwright-cucumber (#1483)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/web-apps/automated-testing/playwright/cucumber.md

:::

## Example Configuration

```yaml reference
https://github.com/saucelabs/saucectl-playwright-example/blob/main/examples/cucumber/.sauce/config.yml
```

Each of the properties supported for running Cucumber-js with Playwright tests through `saucectl` is defined below.

## `apiVersion`
<p><small>| REQUIRED | STRING |</small></p>

Identifies the version of the underlying configuration schema. At this time, `v1alpha` is the only supported value.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1alpha
```
---

## `kind`
<p><small>| REQUIRED | STRING/ENUM |</small></p>

Specifies which framework is associated with the automation tests configured in this specification.

```yaml
kind: playwright-cucumberjs
```
---

## `showConsoleLog`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | BOOLEAN |</small></p>

Generates the `console.log` as local output and as a test asset in Sauce Labs for all tests. By default, `console.log` is only included in results for failed tests.

```yaml
showConsoleLog: true
```
---

## `defaults`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | OBJECT |</small></p>

Specifies any default settings for the project.

```yaml
defaults:
  mode: sauce
  timeout: 15m
```
---

### `mode`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING/ENUM |</small></p>

> Instructs `saucectl` run tests remotely through Sauce Labs (`sauce`) or locally on `docker`. You can override this setting for individual suites using the `mode` setting within the [`suites`](#suites) object. If not set, the default value is `sauce`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instructs `saucectl` to run tests remotely through Sauce Labs (`sauce`) or locally on `docker`. You can override this setting for individual suites using the `mode` setting within the [`suites`](#suites) object. If not set, the default value is `sauce`.
```

:::

---

## `npm`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | OBJECT |</small></p>

A parent property specifying the configuration details for any `npm` dependencies. Packages listed are installed in the environment prior to your tests executing.

```yaml
npm:
  dependencies:
    - "@cucumber/cucumber"
    - "@saucelabs/cucumber-reporter"
    - "typescript"
    - "ts-node"
```
---

### `registry`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p>

Specifies the location of the npm registry source. If the registry source is a private address and you are running tests on Sauce Cloud, you can provide access to the registry source using [Sauce Connect](/dev/cli/saucectl/#run-tests-on-sauce-labs-with-sauce-connect).

```yaml
  registry: https://registry.npmjs.org
```
---

### `dependencies`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | ARRAY |</small></p>

Specifies any npm packages that are required to run tests and should, therefore, be included in the bundle.
The dependencies specified here have to be already installed in the local `node_modules` folder. These dependencies, along with any related transitive dependencies, are then included in the bundle that is uploaded to Sauce Labs.

> In order to run Cucumber-js with Playwright test, you need to install the following required packages locally and then add dependencies to the config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to run Cucumber-js tests Playwright, you must to install the following required packages locally, and then add the dependencies to the configuration file.
```

> In order to run Cucumber-js tests Playwright, you must to install the following required packages locally, and then add the dependencies to the configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to run Cucumber-js tests with Playwright, you must to install the following required packages locally, and then add the dependencies to the configuration file.
```

```yaml
npm:
  dependencies:
    - "@cucumber/cucumber"
    - "@saucelabs/cucumber-reporter"
    - "typescript"
    - "ts-node"
```

To use this feature, make sure that `node_modules` is not ignored via `.sauceignore`.

:::note

> `saucectl` doesn't support the way to run Cucumber-Playwright test via installing Cucumber-js related packages on the fly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`saucectl` doesn't support running Playwright-Cucumber tests via installing Cucumber related packages on the fly.
```

> `saucectl` doesn't support running Playwright-Cucumber tests via installing Cucumber related packages on the fly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`saucectl` doesn't support running Cucumber-js tests with Playwright via installing Cucumber related packages on the fly.
```

```yaml
  version: 1.11.1
```

:::tip
You can also define a path to your `package.json`. This will make `saucectl` use the same Playwright version that's defined in your projects `devDependencies` or `dependencies` map.

The path to your `package.json` file will be relative to the `rootDir` of your configuration.
:::
---

## `suites`
<p><small>| REQUIRED | OBJECT |</small></p>

The set of properties providing details about the test suites to run. May contain multiple suite definitions. See the full [example config](#example-configuration) for an illustration of multiple suite definitions.

---

### `name`
<p><small>| REQUIRED | STRING |</small></p>

The name of the test suite, which will be reflected in the results and related artifacts.

```yaml
  - name: "saucy test"
```
### `browserName`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p>

Sets the browser name for the test suite. `saucectl` passes `browserName` as an environment variable `$BROWSER_NAME`.

> Launching the browser for Cucumber-Playwright test should be done on customer's side. Hence `saucectl` cannot guarantee the displayed browser name is matched with the actual browser name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launching the browser for Cucumber.js Playwright tests should be done on customer's side. Hence `saucectl` cannot guarantee the displayed browser name is matched with the actual browser name.
```

When the suite reaches the timeout limit, its status is set to '?' in the CLI. This does not reflect the actual status of the job in the Sauce Labs web UI or API.

:::note
Setting `0` reverts to the value set in `defaults`.
:::

```yaml
  timeout: 15m
```
---

### `preExec`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING/ARRAY |</small></p>

Specifies which commands needs to be executed before the tests are actually started. The commands are executed from the root directory of your project.

:::note
There is a 300-second limit for all `preExec` commands to complete.
:::

```yaml
  preExec:
    - node ./scripts/pre-execution-script.js
```
---

### `options`
<p><small>| REQUIRED | OBJECT |</small></p>

Provides details related to the Cucumber configuration that are relevant for this test suite.

```yaml
suites:
  - name: My Cucumber Test
    browserName: chromium
    options:
      paths:
        - "features/**/*.feature"
      require:
        - "features/support/*.js"
      format:
        - "json:my-cucumber.json"
```
---

#### `name`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | STRING |</small></p>

> Regular expressions of which Cucumber scenario names should match one of to be run. See more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/filtering.md#names).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies with regular expression matching which Cucumber scenarios to run. See the [Cucumber-js Filtering documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/filtering.md#names) for more information.
```

```yaml
  options:
    name: ".*My Cucumber Scenario"
```
---

#### `paths`
<p><small>| REQUIRED | ARRAY |</small></p>

> Paths to where the feature files are, using glob pattern. See more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/configuration.md#finding-your-features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paths to feature files. See the [Cucumber-js Configuration documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/configuration.md#finding-your-features) for more information. You can use glob pattern to indicate all files that match a specific value, such as a file name, type, or directory.
```

```yaml
  options:
     paths:
      - "features/**/*.feature"
```
---

#### `excludedTestFiles`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | ARRAY |</small></p>

Excludes test files to skip the tests. You can use glob pattern to indicate all files that match a specific value, such as a file name, type, or directory.

```yaml
  options:
    excludedTestFiles: ["features/failed/**/*.feature"]
```
---

#### `backtrace`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | BOOLEAN |</small></p>

> Shows the full backtrace for errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies whether to show the full backtrace for errors.
```

```yaml
  options:
    backtrace: true
```
---

#### `require`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | ARRAY |</small></p>

> Paths to where your support code is, for CommonJS. See more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/configuration.md#finding-your-code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paths to your support code for CommonJS. See the [Cucumber-js Configuration documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/configuration.md#finding-your-code) for more information.
```

```yaml
  options:
    require:
      - "features/support/*.js"
```
---

#### `import`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | ARRAY |</small></p>

> Paths to where your support code is, for ESM. See more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/esm.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paths to your support code for ESM. See the [Cucumber-js ES Modules (experimental) documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/esm.md) for more information. 
```

```yaml
  options:
    import:
      - "features/support/*.js"
```
---

#### `tags`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | ARRAY |</small></p>

> Tag expression to filter which Cucumber scenarios should be run. See more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/filtering.md#tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tag expression to filter which Cucumber scenarios run. See the [Cucumber-js Filtering documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/filtering.md#tags) for more information.
```

```yaml
  options:
    tags:
      - "@smoke"
      - "@e2e"
```
---

#### `format`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | ARRAY |</small></p>

> Name/path and (optionally) output file path of each formatter to use. See more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/formatters.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name/path and (optionally) output file path of each formatter to use. See the [Cucumber-js Formatters documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/formatters.md) for more information.
```

```yaml
  options:
    format:
      - "json:my-cucumber.json"
```
---

#### `formatOptions`
<p><small>| OPTIONAL | OBJECT |</small></p>

> Options to be provided to formatters. You can check more details [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/formatters.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Options to provide to formatters. See the [Cucumber-js Formatters documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/main/docs/formatters.md) for more information. 
```

---
id: cucumber

> title: Configuring Your Playwright with Cucumber Tests

Reviewer 2: I think we should change the general wording to `Cucumber Tests with Playwright`.
A benign change, but main focus are the Cucumber tests, with playwright as the automation framework underneath.

Also worth mentioning somewhere that this is CucumberJs, specifically.
